 Sam Ryder says he has been "swept up in the joy that is Eurovision" after his performance of Space Man saw the UK finish second behind Ukraine, its highest-placed finish since 1998. What has been the reaction to the former construction worker's exploits in his hometown of Maldon, Essex? As the owner of Talking Flowers, Jaymey McIvor, 23, Saturdays are his shop's busiest day. Despite being "very, very tired", he says he "of course stayed up to watch Eurovision" and describes Ryder's performance as "incredible". "For someone from Maldon to be so successful on the European stage is just wonderful, it's such a mood lift for the town," he says. "Everyone was talking about it on the lead up so I'm sure that everyone is going to be coming in and talking about it. "Maldon is a very tight community, we do support our own, so I think it's really evident from the social media support that he's had that word is definitely getting out that the boy from Maldon has done well." Jaymey says he hopes Ryder goes on to have a "very successful career" in music. "He is clearly very, very talented," he says. "He's got such a good vibe, such a wonderful energy. "There are plenty of young musicians in this country that are looking at Sam Ryder and thinking 'You know what? I reckon I could do that' and they're probably feeling very inspired this morning."  Kay Ball says she thinks Ryder "has done fantastic". "I think that circumstances being different he may have won but I think to get as far as we did was great," she says. "[Ryder is] outgoing, he's extremely talented, he's something different and I think it's just something that we wanted and needed at this time really."  The result was "absolutely brilliant," says Sandra Holmes. "He seemed a really happy chap and he seemed to really enjoy what he was doing," she says. "I think he would have come first if it wasn't for the circumstances of what's going on in the world but it's fantastic." She added that there is "absolutely" some local pride in the story of a "local lad doing good". "That's what we like to see," she says. Find BBC News: East of England on Facebook, Instagram and Twitter. If you have a story suggestion email eastofenglandnews@bbc.co.uk

