 After last year's Oscars red carpet was somewhat limited thanks to Covid-19, the event was back to being the usual full-on fashion bonanza as Hollywood stars returned in their droves. Alana Haim, star of Licorice Pizza, oozed classic glamour with a delicately layered Louis Vuitton dress shimmering with sequins, paired with a simple silver sandal and nude nail polish. There was no fishtail hem but she still definitely channelling a subtle mermaid vibe. There were more sequins courtesy of Jessica Chastain's custom Gucci bodice and full skirt, accompanied by a huge ballroom-style ruffle - quite the change from the 1980s shoulder pads she sported in her leading role in The Eyes of Tammy Faye, for which she won best actress. Best supporting actor nominee Kodi Smit-McPhee side-stepped the safe black tux choice, opting for a Bottega Veneta pale powder double-breasted blue suit and shirt. He teamed it with a silver neck chain and earring plus white brothel creepers for extra height. Not that he needed it at just over 6ft 1in. Emilia Jones stars in best picture winner Coda and was one of a number of stars to bare their midriff on the red carpet in a Dolce and Gabbana halterneck sequinned number with a structured bodice.  Timothee Chalamet obviously couldn't face the stress of doing up a bow tie so came up with a simple solution - go shirtless. His black sequinned jacket came courtesy of Louis Vuitton. His Dune co-star Zendaya went for a cropped silk white shirt with a silver sequinned skirt. Numerous bangles added extra bling to the Valentino outfit. Kristen Stewart, who was nominated for best actress for her portrayal of Princess Diana in Spencer, went for a bold look from Chanel, teaming black hot pants and a unbuttoned chiffon cream shirt with a black tux and side-swept hair. Not to mention a pair of killer stilettos. Billie Eilish took the ruffle trend to the max with her Gucci Victorian-inspired black voluminous floor-length gown. Gothic glam with a sharp black haircut to match. Her Bond theme, No Time To Die, won best song. First-time nominee Ariana DeBose went on to win best supporting actress for West Side Story. Having wowed us in different shades of yellow at this year's Baftas and Critics Choice awards, she opted for bright red this time, looking relaxed in a Valentino wide-leg trouser and matching top. A voluminous cape added extra drama to the look. Venus and Serena Williams showed off their fashion credentials with Venus sporting a futuristic white fitted Elie Saab dress with silver jewellery cuffs. Serena opted for a Gucci pink pleated flowing frock adorned with sequined black flowers and black lace gloves. Lupita Nyong'o, you never let us down. This time, we have Prada to thank. A vision in gold sequins that morphed into what we can only describe as floaty streamers from the waist down, dotted with a few pale pink spring flowers that shouldn't work against such a bold backdrop  - but totally do. British hopeful Olivia Colman (The Lost Daughter) opted for a sophisticated full-length dress from Dior, featuring ethereal silver pleats, huge fluted sleeves, a high rollneck and silver jewellery. Jason Momoa sported a blue and yellow handkerchief on the red carpet, the colours of the Ukrainian flag. Nicole Kidman was up for best actress for her turn as Lucille Ball in Being the Ricardo but lost out to Chastain. She walked the red carpet with husband Keith Urban, who wore a classic tux. Kidman plumped for an Armani grey strapless gown with a train and an eye-catching puffball waist. One of last year's winners, Daniel Kaluuya, went bold with a bright teal double-breasted Gucci jacket with black lapels, coupled with a black shirt. A chunky gold ring completed the look.  Jessie Buckley, who was up for best supporting actress, caught up with the film's director, Maggie Gyllenhaal, on the red carpet. Buckley sported a cream Erdem gown, while Gyllenhaal went for a structured off-the-shoulder Schiaparelli number with ornate gold embellishment. Will Smith looked quite the English country gent - before his now infamous slap and best actor win. Has he also been catching up on Peaky Blinders? Rap star Megan Thee Stallion wore a custom flowing blue and silver figure-hugging dress with a cut-out mid-section by Indian designer Gaurav Gupta. She teamed it with peach nails and a chic chignon. Her stunning jewellery included a huge sapphire and diamond ring with matching heart-shaped drop earrings.  West Side Story star Rachel Zegler was a late addition to the presenting line-up and had said she wasn't sure what she was going to wear. Luckily, she happened upon this on-trend Dior beaded black dress with a striking knotted back strap.  Bill Murray looked dapper in a black-and-white shirt with polka dot scarf and a felt beret with leather trim. We can only assume the mini Oscars statuette wrapped in cellophane in his pocket is a lollipop - it  was a fairly long ceremony so it might have come in handy when the hunger pangs kicked in.  Follow us on Facebook, on Twitter @BBCNewsEnts. If you have a story suggestion email entertainment.news@bbc.co.uk.

