 The biggest stars and films of the past year have been honoured at the 94th Academy Awards. Find out about this year's main Oscar winners and how to watch them. What's it about? - Ruby is the only hearing person in her family, a Coda (child of deaf adult/s). She wants to study music but also feels she has to help her parents with their struggling business.  Who's in it? - Emilia Jones, Marlee Matlin, Troy Kotsur. What did it win? - Best picture, best supporting actor for Kotsur, best adapted screenplay for Sian Heder.  Where can I see it? - On Apple TV+. What's it about? - It's a new adaptation of Frank Herbert's science fantasy novel about the son of a noble family, and his role in safeguarding the galaxy's most valuable substance.  Who's in it? - Timothee Chalamet, Rebecca Ferguson, Zendaya. What did it win? - Best original score, cinematography, visual effects, film editing, sound and production design. Where can I see it? - Available for digital rental and purchase, and in some cinemas. What's it about? - The rise and fall of real-life US televangelist Tammy Faye Bakker and husband Jim, who was imprisoned for five years on fraud charges. Who's in it? - Jessica Chastain, Andrew Garfield. What did it win? - Best actress for Chastain. Where can I see it? - On Disney+ and available for on-demand purchase. What's it about? - It's a biographical drama about Richard Williams, the father and coach of tennis stars Serena and Venus Williams. Who's in it? - Will Smith, Aunjanue Ellis, Saniyya Sidney. What did it win? - Best actor for Smith. Where can I see it? - Available for digital rental and purchase, and in some cinemas. What's it about? - It's a dark Western which sees a rancher cruelly tormenting his brother's new wife and her son. Who's in it? - Benedict Cumberbatch, Kirsten Dunst, Jesse Plemons, Kodi Smit-McPhee.  What did it win? - Best director for Jane Campion. Where can I see it? - On Netflix and in some cinemas. What's it about? - It's a new Steven Spielberg version of the classic musical about rival New York street gangs, and the love story of Tony and Maria. Who's in it? - Rachel Zegler, Ansel Elgort, Ariana DeBose, Rita Moreno. What did it win? - Best supporting actress for Ariana DeBose. Where can I see it? - On Disney+ and in some cinemas. What's it about? - This semi-autobiographical film from Sir Kenneth Branagh is a story about a young boy's Belfast upbringing. Who's in it? - Jude Hill, Jamie Dornan, Ciaran Hinds, Caitriona Balfe, Dame Judi Dench. What did it win? - Best original screenplay for Sir Kenneth. Where can I see it? - Available for digital rental and in some cinemas. What's it about? - Mirabel Madrigal is a young girl who is the only member of her large family not to have been blessed with a magical gift. Who's in it? - The voices of Stephanie Beatriz, Maria Cecilia Botero and John Leguizamo. What did it win? - Best animated feature. Where can I see it? - On Disney+. What's it about? - Adapted from a Haruki Murakami short story, it follows an actor and the young woman assigned to be his chauffeur, who go on a journey together in more ways than one. Who's in it? - Hidetoshi Nishijima, Toko Miura, Masaki Okada, Reika Kirishima. What did it win? - Best international feature. Where can I see it? - In cinemas and it's available for digital rental.

