 Jane Campion's The Power of the Dog, an intense Western starring Benedict Cumberbatch, leads this year's Oscar board with 12 nominations. It is closely followed by Dune, which has 10, and Belfast and West Side Story, which have seven each. Olivia Colman, Benedict Cumberbatch and Andrew Garfield are among the UK nominees in the lead acting categories. Dame Judi Dench and Ciarán Hinds are nominated for their supporting roles in Sir Kenneth Branagh's Belfast. His autobiographical black-and-white film about a family in Northern Ireland during The Troubles is one of 10 films in the running for best picture. Sir Kenneth, who is also nominated for best director, said in a statement: "It's a long way from the streets of Belfast to the Academy Awards.  "Today, I think of my mother and father, and my grandparents - how proud they were to be Irish, how much this city meant to them. They would have been overwhelmed by this incredible honour - as am I. "Given a story as personal as this one, it's a hell of a day for my family, and the family of our film. I thank Academy voters for their incredible and generous recognition." Sir Kenneth becomes the first person to be nominated in seven different Oscar categories throughout his career. He already has director, actor, supporting actor, adapted screenplay and live action short nominations, but can now add best original screenplay and best picture. He is yet to win, however. With her nomination, New Zealand director Jane Campion becomes the first woman to have been nominated for best director twice, having been recognised for The Piano in 1993. Her film, The Power of the Dog, is a slow and suspenseful western which also scored nominations for three of its supporting actors - Jesse Plemons, Kodi Smit-McPhee and Kirsten Dunst. Many nominees shared their joy on social media after the Academy unveiled its shortlists on Tuesday. Jessica Chastain, nominated for her leading performance in The Eyes of Tammy Faye, tweeted: "This morning felt like a dream". Australian actor Kodi Smit-McPhee said he was "deeply honoured" to have been recognised as a best supporting actor nominee in the Power of the Dog. Belfast star Ciarán Hinds, another nominee in that category, said in a statement: "Having worked in this industry for nearly 50 years, I thought there wasn't much that could surprise me still. Today, I can honestly say, I am astounded, thrilled and deeply grateful." British actor Andrew Garfield said he was "deeply humbled" to be recognised for his portrayal of the late composer Jonathan Larson in Tick Tick... Boom! "All I long for is to tell stories that remind us of how to live," Garfield said in a statement. "Jonathan's story offers us a treasure map. Thank you for keeping his song reverberating through our universe." Jessie Buckley told RTÉ she was in "complete shock" after being nominated for best supporting actress, adding: "The Lost Daughter is so special to me... To be recognised for anything connected to it is just a wild dream come true." And Ariana DeBose, who is also a strong contender for best supporting actress for her role as Anita in West Side Story, shared her excitement over her nomination. Two couples are nominated within the 20 acting places that were available. Penelope Cruz (Parallel Mothers) and Javier Bardem (Being The Ricardos) have been married since 2010, while Jesse Plemons and Kirsten Dunst are engaged. In a statement, Dunst said: "To be honored by the Academy is a truly humbling experience. For both Jesse and I to get our first nominations together is beyond our wildest dreams." Denzel Washington's nomination for The Tragedy of Macbeth is his 10th, extending the record he already holds as the most nominated black actor ever. There is no overlap between the best actress and best picture categories - all five women nominated for a leading role appeared in films which did not make it into the top category. This is common at the Oscars. While Frances McDormand and Nomadland synced their wins last year, that was the first time in 15 years that the winner of best actress appeared in the film that also won best picture. Efforts to nominate more popular films and make the Oscars more relevant to young people were only partly successful, as fans of James Bond and Spider-Man were left disappointed. Denis Villeneuve's sci-fi saga Dune was the most successful film to get a best picture nod, after taking $400m (£294m) at the box office worldwide.  With far more films in the awards season race this year and only a limited number of slots available in each category, it was inevitable that some films and stars would miss out.  The voting system means that, while the Academy does not choose to actively reject a particular movie, director or actor, a heavily-tipped contender can miss out if they don't get as many votes as some of their peers.  For example, the red carpet will have to do without without Lady Gaga and her Oscars outfit this year. She had been tipped for a best actress nomination for House of Gucci, but has missed out. It's not a good year to be both a musician and an actor. Gaga's co-star Jared Leto, who is also the singer with Thirty Seconds To Mars, and Alana Haim, who has gone from the band Haim to starring in Licorice Pizza, were both in contention but have been overlooked. Kristen Stewart did make it on to the best actress list, though, for playing Princess Diana in Spencer. Her first Oscar nomination, the former Twilight star was the frontrunner to win a few months ago, but Spencer has rapidly fallen out of favour and it wasn't certain that she would be nominated. On the best supporting actress list, Dame Judi had been an outsider to be nominated for Belfast - but she is loved by the Oscars, and has now received her eighth career nomination. Her on-screen daughter-in-law Caitriona Balfe, who was thought to have been Belfast's more likely representative in that category, was not recognised. Irish star Jessie Buckley was also something of a surprise in the best supporting actress category. She plays the younger version of Olivia Colman's character in The Lost Daughter - with Colman herself up for best actress, days after being snubbed in the Bafta nominations. Overall, Oscar voters liked The Power of the Dog a bit more than expected, and liked Dune a bit less than expected - typified by the fact that, although Dune has 10 nominations, Denis Villeneuve didn't make the cut for best director. Tracee Ellis Ross and Leslie Jordan announced the nominations in Los Angeles on Tuesday. There is pressure to make the Oscars more popular with and relevant to young audiences, after 2021's pared-down ceremony tanked in the ratings, partly due to the absence of big film releases during lockdown. The Academy has confirmed the ceremony will have a host this year, but has not yet revealed who it will be. The ceremony hasn't had a host since Jimmy Kimmel was at the helm in 2018. Instead, a variety of celebrity guests have introduced individual categories and announced winners. This year's ceremony will take place on Sunday 27 March.  Follow us on Facebook, or on Twitter @BBCNewsEnts. If you have a story suggestion email entertainment.news@bbc.co.uk.

