 Former University Challenge presenter and author Bamber Gascoigne has died at the age of 87. Gascoigne was the original presenter of the TV quiz show from 1962 to 1987. He also presented TV documentaries and wrote several books. His wife Christina said he was "an incredibly generous man and everything he did was pointed towards sharing the gifts of his own life with others". Stephen Fry led the tributes, saying he was "such an elegant, intelligent man". Fry, who took part in University Challenge in 1980, wrote on Twitter: "Oh no, not Bamber. He was so kind and warm to us students who sat nervously at those desks." Gascoigne, who died after a short illness, became best known for his famous University Challenge catchphrases such as "Fingers on buzzers", "Your starter for 10", and "I'll have to hurry you". Paul Sinha, star of ITV's quiz show The Chase, tweeted: "[Gascoigne's] effortless erudition, making whole swathes of impenetrable knowledge seem cheerfully accessible, was totally inspiring to this kid of the 80s. Sadly we may never see his like on our screens again." Former University Challenge contestant Bobby Seagull wrote: "Farewell Bamber Gascoigne... He set the tone for one of the best UK TV quiz shows. Scholarly, gentle and yet commanding, he joins the pantheon of great gameshow hosts. We shall miss you. RIP Bamber." Only Connect presenter Victoria Coren Mitchell said: "No quiz host has ever seemed more like they could answer all the questions themselves." University Challenge aired on ITV for 25 years before being revived on the BBC in 1994 with Jeremy Paxman as the quiz master. Gascoigne also found cult fame after an episode of anarchic sitcom The Young Ones was named after him - titled Bambi - in 1984.  The League of Gentleman star and Sherlock co-creator Mark Gatiss played Gascoigne in the 2006 film Starter for Ten. Author David Nicholls, who wrote the book the film was based on, posted on Twitter: "Very sad to see this. Bamber was a big part of my TV childhood and was very gracious about his fictional cameo in Starter For Ten. He came to the book launch and left me quite starstruck." Gascoigne also presented 1977 ITV documentary series The Christians and the 1990 Channel 4 TV series The Great Moghuls, and created an online history encyclopaedia called HistoryWorld.  More recently, his Surrey home has become familiar to fans of the BBC comedy Ghosts. He inherited West Horsley Place - which is known as Button House in the series - from his aunt, the Duchess of Roxburghe, in 2014. The 15th Century house is also home to Grange Park Opera's summer festival. In a statement, Christina Gascoigne said: "Bamber and I had a fantastic 62 years together full of friends and adventures. We never had a quarrel, not even when I turned the car over while we were driving to India. "He was an incredibly generous man and everything he did was pointed towards sharing the gifts of his own life with others - he was even instrumental in the creation of a new Thames boat: the skerry (a cross between the skiff and the wherry) so that schoolchildren could enjoy the river as much as he did. "For 30 years, we swam in the river every day possible (only in the summer). He loved opera and was thrilled that he could have an opera house in the garden he inherited from his aunt Mary Roxburghe. "It was 50 years ago that he hosted University Challenge, but that is what everyone remembers. That and his limitless thirst for knowledge, which he retained like a sponge." Gascoigne was born in London and won scholarships to Eton and Magdalene College, Cambridge, where he met his wife. He also co-wrote the 1950s musical revue Share My Lettuce, which showcased rising stars Kenneth Williams and Dame Maggie Smith. The TV host was appointed CBE in 2018 for services to the arts. In a statement, Peter Gwyn, executive producer of University Challenge, said everyone on the show "has been deeply saddened to hear of Bamber's death, and our thoughts and sympathy go to his family and friends".  "Bamber was unlike anyone else on television when the programme started back in 1962 - he was utterly charming, erudite and, at times, seemingly omniscient, and his 25 years spent presenting the programme established it firmly as the institution it is now. He was a unique presence in British broadcasting and he'll be very sadly missed."

