 The government has announced plans to reduce the UK's reliance on oil and gas by building as many as eight new nuclear reactors, as part of its new energy strategy. The aim is that by 2050, up to 24 gigawatts (GW) of electricity will come from nuclear - 25% of the UK's projected electricity demand. Prime Minister Boris Johnson says expanding the use of nuclear would help cut bills and resist "bullying" from Russia, which dominates the European gas market.  To create nuclear power, in non-military reactors, uranium atoms are bombarded by much smaller neutron particles.  This causes the atoms to break down and release huge amounts of energy as heat. The heat is then used to boil water, producing steam which drives turbines and generates electricity. This process does not result in greenhouse gas emissions, and requires minimal mining for metals and other resources, but does produce hazardous waste that needs to be stored for a very long time. There are currently six plants that can supply about 20% of UK electricity demand, with 15% generated in 2020. This amount has declined since the 1990s, with several plants reaching the end of their lives. Most of the existing reactors are due to be shut down before 2030. The government says it wants to deliver up to eight new reactors overall - with one being approved each year until 2030. The government has backed the construction of Hinkley C in Somerset, which will be the UK's largest nuclear station.  It has also confirmed advanced plans to approve two new reactors at Sizewell C in Suffolk.  Wylfa in Anglesey has also been named as a site for a new nuclear plant. As well as larger nuclear power stations, the government is also supporting Small Modular Reactors (SMRs), which work in the same way as conventional nuclear reactors, but on a smaller scale. The UK will collaborate with countries such as Canada and the United States on advanced nuclear technologies, including both SMRs and Advanced Modular Reactors (AMRs).  The overall cost of nuclear power is comparable with other forms of energy, but nuclear plants are extremely expensive to build.  Hinkley C - the newest of the UK's planned nuclear power stations - is already expected to be 30% over budget at £22-26bn.   The government hopes a new financial funding model could cut the cost of future nuclear projects.  There are significant costs in closing down nuclear plants. The UK is currently decommissioning 17 plants, but has struggled to control spending. The World Nuclear Association estimates that decommissioning costs should only be 5% of the final cost of the electricity is produces. But in 2020, the Public Accounts Committee called the UK's approach to decommissioning its first-generation nuclear power plants a "sorry saga". The UK Nuclear Decommissioning Authority (NDA) - which is responsible for this - says it could cost £132bn, and take 120 years. It is hoped the next round of decommissioning - which will take seven of the UK's second generator reactors offline from 2028 - will be cheaper. There is also the question of the price which will be paid for the energy generated by the UK's new nuclear plants. In 2013, the government agreed to pay £92.50 per megawatt hour for Hinkley Point's electricity, which would rise with inflation.  Although this is much lower than current prices which have soared to £195 per megawatt hour due to the energy crisis, critics argue it is still too much. Over the last five years, the price has been between £25 and £50 per megawatt hour, so if prices return to this level it would make nuclear power expensive, by comparison. Critics of nuclear power say they take so long to come on stream they will be too late for the UK's emissions targets or to reduce energy prices. In 2016, EDF Energy said construction of Hinkley Point C would take 10 years - last year it said it was on track to open by the end of 2026, although further delays are possible.  A new body called Great British Nuclear is now being set up, with the aim of overseeing and speeding up the time it takes to build and make nuclear plants operational. The government also says SMRs are quicker to construct than larger plants due to the smaller parts involved. The International Atomic Energy Agency says nuclear power plants are among "the safest and most secure facilities in the world". They are subject to stringent international safety standards.  There have been some high-profile accidents, where large amounts of radioactive material were released into the environment. The worst nuclear accident in history resulted from an explosion at the Chernobyl nuclear power plant in 1986. A tsunami caused by an enormous earthquake flooded the Fukushima nuclear plant in Japan in 2011.  Even under normal conditions, generating nuclear power produces hazardous radioactive waste, which needs to be safely managed and stored for hundreds of years.  Like fossil fuels, nuclear fuels are non-renewable energy resource, But unlike fossil fuels, nuclear power stations do not produce greenhouse gases like carbon dioxide or methane - and 1kg of nuclear fuel produces millions of times more energy than 1kg of coal. However, building new nuclear plants creates emissions - through manufacturing the steel and other materials needed - while the long-term environmental consequences of dealing with nuclear waste are also unclear. 

