 Scotland and England have lifted their guidance to work from home. However, people in Northern Ireland and Wales are still advised to work remotely where possible.  In England the government is no longer asking people to work from home. It had previously asked people to do so, to help tackle the spread of Omicron. In Scotland, similar guidance has now been relaxed. The government wants firms to let workers return gradually - allowing them to spend some time in the office and some time at home.  In Northern Ireland, current guidance is to work from home where you can. Offices no longer need to take reasonable measures for 2m (6ft) social distancing, although risk assessments should still be carried out. In Wales, the government says it remains important to work from home if you can. A legal restriction to work from home unless unavoidable - with £60 fines for anyone who did not comply - has been scrapped. Employers are asked to follow official safety guidance and carry out Covid risk assessments for those staff who are in the office.  Safety measures can include: There is more detailed advice for some industries - including construction, hospitality and manufacturing, plus specific advice for employers in England, Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland. Face-coverings remain mandatory for staff and customers in shops and on public transport across the UK, apart from England. Northern Ireland, Wales and Scotland have Covid passport schemes which are partly designed to protect staff who work in hospitality and events.  If employees feel unsafe, they can raise concerns with their local authority, Citizens Advice or the Health and Safety Executive (HSE).  Working from home is one of the most effective ways to reduce exposure to Covid, according to the government's Scientific Advisory Group for Emergencies (Sage).  It greatly limits face-to-face contact - both with colleagues and on public transport. Much of the risk depends on how crowded it is and your distance from other people. Wearing a mask helps, as does keeping windows open, and avoiding peak journey times where possible. In 2020, 37% of working UK adults did at least some work from home, up from 27% the previous year.

