 Covid-19 infections in the UK are at the lowest levels seen so far this year, the latest weekly Office for National Statistics figures suggest. Estimated infections have returned to levels last seen before the first Omicron variant, called BA.1, became widespread. It comes alongside a fall in the number of hospital patients with coronavirus, with the lowest number of people in hospital with Covid since the end of December 2021. But in total more than 177,000 people have died in the UK since the outbreak of the virus. A Covid vaccination programme has so far reached nine in 10 people aged 12 and over with a first dose. Estimated infections fell in all nations in the week ending 7 May, according to the infection survey by the Office for National Statistics.  Total infections were down by a quarter on the previous week, with an estimated one in every 45 people infected. This is about 2% of the population. The survey is thought to give the best picture of infections across the UK because people are selected to take part at random. Survey participants across the country are tested weekly and there is a lag of several days before the figures are published. At the start of April England scrapped free coronavirus tests for the majority of people and the rules around when most can access free tests have tightened in Scotland and Wales. Find out how the pandemic has affected your area and how it compares with the national average: Data last updated on 16 May If you can't see the look-up click here. According to more recent government statistics, there were 22,337 confirmed coronavirus cases reported on 16 May. Since 31 January, the daily cases figure has included reinfections across the UK, although all nations apart from Wales used to only count the first infection. From 2 April, free lateral flow tests are no longer generally available in England. Tests can be privately bought but the results cannot be reported on the government website. Restrictions in Wales were relaxed on 28 March, following earlier loosening of measures in England and Northern Ireland. The blue areas on the map below show the places currently seeing the highest number of cases per 100,000 people.  Data last updated on 16 May As of 13 May, government figures for the whole of the UK show 8,152 people with coronavirus were in hospital, down from 10,295 a week earlier. Patient numbers were last below 10,000 in late December 2021. The proportion of people being treated for very severe infections and needing intensive care remain lower than earlier in the pandemic, as vaccinations continue to protect people from severe disease. Of those in hospital with Covid, 189 were in mechanical ventilation beds - using ventilators to help them breathe - down from the previous week's number of 237. More than 53 million people, about 93% of those aged 12 and over in the UK, have now received a first dose of a vaccine.  The number of people who have received a second vaccine dose is over 49 million, or 87% of people aged 12 and over. So far, more than 39 million booster doses have been administered across the UK.  An extra booster jab rollout is under way for people aged 75 and over, residents in care homes and those with weakened immune systems. There were 153 deaths within 28 days of a positive test reported on 16 May, including figures from the weekend. Of these, 128 were reported in England, 24 in Scotland, and one in Northern Ireland. There were no deaths reported in Wales. As of 1 February, the reported daily deaths figure includes people who have died after being infected for a second time. These people used to be removed from the totals. It's always been true that some people who die within 28 days of a positive Covid test do so due to an illness or condition unrelated to coronavirus. Despite this, they are still included in the official daily figures. When there are huge numbers of people testing positive - as there were in December and January - the number of people testing positive but dying from other reasons increases. When looking at the overall death toll from coronavirus, official figures count deaths in three different ways, each giving a slightly different number. UK Covid-19 infections appear to be dropping First, government figures - the ones reported each weekday - count people who died within 28 days of testing positive for coronavirus. This figure is over 177,000. According to the latest Office for National Statistics figures, the UK has now seen more than 193,000 deaths in total - that's all those deaths where coronavirus was mentioned on the death certificate even if the person had not been tested for the virus.  The third measure counts all deaths over and above the expected number since the pandemic began - that figure was about 147,000 as of 29 April. It is sometimes referred to as excess deaths above the long-term average.

