 More than 100 fixed penalty notices have been issued over lockdown events in Number 10 and Whitehall. Additional fines could still be issued as a result of the Metropolitan Police investigation. And the full version of a separate inquiry, by the senior civil servant Sue Gray, is yet to come. Prime Minister Boris Johnson received a fine related to a gathering for his birthday, in Downing Street in June 2020. His wife Carrie and Chancellor Rishi Sunak were also fined over the party. The BBC is aware of three other events that have led to fixed penalty notices so far: The Met's inquiry, called Operation Hillman, has been examining 12 gatherings.  Boris Johnson attended at least two other gatherings under investigation:  Police have also been investigating a separate gathering on 13 November 2020 in the Downing Street flat, where the PM and his wife live, but it is not confirmed that Mr Johnson attended this event. The police don't name those who receive fixed penalty notices, so the names of those who receive them will remain unknown. However, No 10 has said it would reveal if the prime minister was fined. Sue Gray's initial report referred to 16 gatherings in Downing Street and the Cabinet Office, but not all of them have subsequently been investigated by the Metropolitan Police. The report said that the police decided that four of the gatherings were not considered to have reached the threshold for criminal investigation. The four gatherings were: While the online Christmas quiz on 15 December 2020 was on the list of gatherings that were not going to be investigated by police that decision was reviewed following the publication of a photo of the event in February 2022. It showed Mr Johnson with three aides, two in tinsel and a Santa hat, with a bottle of sparkling wine. The police investigation was launched after a separate inquiry by Sue Gray.  Of the 16 alleged parties or gatherings listed in her initial findings, the police have been investigating all but of four of them. Her full report has been delayed until police investigations end. Since being fined, the prime minister has already said he "fell short" of his own rules and people "had the right to expect better" from him. He has also said that an updated version of the Gray report would be published in full, once the police have finished their investigation. Opposition parties say he misled Parliament when he told MPs late last year no rules were broken. Fixed penalty notices (FPNs) are for breaking Covid laws. Every Metropolitan Police decision to issue FPNs in relation to "partygate" goes to Acro, the criminal records office for England and Wales. It receives and processes the payments required from each person who has been found to have broken the law. That means there is an official record on the system - but it is not a criminal record that must be disclosed. If someone doesn't pay an FPN, then it becomes more serious. The notice will be referred to the courts. In the worst case scenario, a magistrate could issue a warrant for someone to be arrested and hauled before them for non-payment. Challenging an FPN is complicated and has been much criticised as opaque and potentially unfair by expert lawyers. Sometimes an individual police force may reverse a decision after direct lobbying. The alternative is to argue it out in court. But that is expensive - and losing leads to a criminal conviction as it's a criminal court ruling. 

