 Here are five things you need to know about the coronavirus pandemic this Thursday morning. As the UK emerges from the pandemic, the ambulance service is under pressure. It's seeing record levels of demand this year and doctors and paramedics say that long waits for ambulances are having a "dangerous impact" on patient safety. In one case, nine-year-old Willow Clark faced a 10-hour wait for an ambulance when she suffered a fractured skull after falling off her bike last year. The ambulance service in that case apologised and NHS England says patient safety is its "absolute priority". More than two years after the start of the pandemic North Korea has confirmed its first official Covid infections. Leader Kim Jong-un vowed to eradicate the outbreak recorded in the capital Pyongyang, according to KCNA state media. A strict national lockdown on 25 million residents has been ordered. But why admit to it now? Most likely it's because this outbreak is too serious and too difficult to hide, says our Seoul correspondent Jean Mackenzie. The world has become "complacent" about Covid and risks "sleepwalking" into another variant crisis unless vaccinations in low-income countries increase. That's according to former prime minister Gordon Brown who will be speaking at an international Covid summit later. Images of doctors and nurses portrayed as cape-wearing superheroes appeared throughout the pandemic. They were appreciated by staff, says chief nursing officer for Wales Sue Tranka, but it added pressure on exhausted workers. She's been speaking ahead of International Nurses Day. Read more here. "Alice is the most incredible nurse ever. She is an angel," says YouTuber Grace Victory, who was put into a coma due to Covid shortly after giving birth to her son. She was cared for by student nurse Alice Finnigan and the pair have been reunited to celebrate the role of nurses on International Nurses Day. Here's the full story. Get a longer daily news briefing from the BBC in your inbox, each weekday morning, by signing up here. It's likely that Covid will be with us for a while, so what could living with the virus look like in the future? Our health editor Hugh Pym has investigated. Take a look. You can find more information, advice and guides on our coronavirus page. What questions do you have about coronavirus? In some cases, your question will be published, displaying your name, age and location as you provide it, unless you state otherwise. Your contact details will never be published. Please ensure you have read our terms & conditions and privacy policy. Use this form to ask your question:  If you are reading this page and can't see the form you will need to visit the mobile version of the BBC website to submit your question or send them via email to YourQuestions@bbc.co.uk. Please include your name, age and location with any question you send in. 

