 Most people in England and Scotland can no longer get free PCR or lateral flow tests (LFTs).  A few groups are still entitled to free Covid tests, including the most vulnerable, as well as frontline NHS staff.  Some limited free testing for the public will continue in Wales and Northern Ireland until the end of June.  Free LFTs are no longer generally available to members of the public.   Most people with symptoms are no longer entitled to free PCR tests either.  Some groups can still get free tests: If you still qualify, you may be able to order LFTs online (if you have an NHS login), or by calling 119.  People who are eligible for community Covid drug treatments because they're at higher risk if they catch Covid are being sent LFTs to keep at home in case they develop symptoms.  The government says it will be able to expand the testing system again in the future if necessary, such as if a new variant of concern emerges.  You may still need to test before or after travelling abroad. You must buy private tests for this - you can't use free NHS tests.   Yes. High street pharmacies charge about £2 per test. The government has a list of private test providers.  However, you cannot report the result of a privately-bought LFT on the government website.  People with symptoms in Scotland are no longer asked to take a PCR test and self isolate - instead they are advised to stay at home while they are unwell or have a fever. Testing for the general population has ended, apart from certain groups including health and social workers, hospital or care home visitors, hospital patients and unpaid carers. Wales will keep some free testing capacity until the end of June:  After then, free LFTs won't be available, contact tracing and self-isolation support payments will end, and self-isolation guidance will be updated to advise ill people to stay at home. Wales: Testing guidance Northern Ireland will also keep some free testing capacity until the end of June.  Northern Ireland: Test, Trace and Protect transition plan

