  The raft of restrictions put in place over the pandemic have now been lifted as Scotland moves to living with Covid.  From 1 May, public health advice is to "stay at home" if you feel unwell or have a fever, and people are no longer advised to take a test. The health service is also now officially no longer on an emergency footing.  The legal requirement to wear face coverings in shops, hospitality venues and on public transport in Scotland came to an end on 18 April. However, the Scottish government and health experts are still strongly advising people to continue to wear masks voluntarily. The officially recognised symptoms for Covid have been updated. They now include: Most people no longer need to test for Covid.  Free lateral flow tests are now not available to the general population and the PCR testing sites have been closed. People without symptoms are also no longer advised to take regular tests.  Testing remains available to specific groups such as high risk patients, unpaid carers, health and social care workers and for people visiting care homes or hospitals. People who have Covid symptoms, a fever or are what the Scottish government describes as "too unwell to carry out normal activities" are being asked to stay at home until they get better. Those under the age of 18 with mild symptoms, such as a runny nose or slight cough, who are otherwise well do not need to stay at home and can go to school, college or childcare. People who still take Covid tests, such as NHS workers, and get a positive result will still be expected to isolate at home for five days after they took the test. Contact tracing has also ended and the Protect Scotland app is being switched off.  The legal requirement for businesses to take steps to reduce the spread of Covid, including physical distancing and screens, ended on 21 March. The vaccine passport scheme - which covers nightclubs and large events - ended on 28 February. It has been announced that the domestic use of the app will also be switched off. New guidance on working from home came into effect on 31 January. This recommends that employers consider a hybrid working system, with staff spending some time in the office and some time at home. The legal requirement to wear face coverings in certain settings, such as shops, ended on 18 April. The last remaining restrictions in England have been replaced by a "Living with Covid" plan. People with Covid are no longer legally required to self-isolate, although the guidance is that those who test positive should stay at home and avoid contact with others for at least five full days. Masks are no longer legally required in most public spaces - although they are still required in healthcare settings, such as GP surgeries, hospitals and care homes - and Covid tests are no longer free for most people. It is no longer the law to wear a face covering in shops or on buses and trains in Wales, but masks are still a legal requirement in health and social care settings. Legal measures have been replaced by guidance in Northern Ireland, which recommends that face masks are still worn in certain places, such as enclosed public spaces and health and social care settings.

