 Covid-19 is continuing to spread around the world, with more than 510 million confirmed cases and more than six million deaths reported across almost 200 countries.  The US, India and Brazil have seen the highest number of confirmed cases, followed by France, Germany and the UK.  Very few places have been left untouched.  In the table below, countries can be reordered by deaths, death rate and total cases. In the coloured bars on the right-hand side, countries in which cases have risen to more than 10,000 per day are those with black bars on the relevant date. The true extent of the first outbreak in 2020 is unclear because testing was not then widely available. Deaths are falling in many areas, however official figures may not fully reflect the true number in many countries.  Data on excess deaths, a measure of how many more people are dying than would be expected based on the previous few years, may give a better indication of the actual numbers in many cases.  Using this metric, researchers suggest that more than 18 million people may have died because of Covid up to the end of 2021. That figure is three times higher than officially recorded deaths from the disease.  Nearly every nation in the world is now administering vaccines and publishing rollout data, while at least 157 countries and territories have moved on to booster jabs.  The map below, using figures collated by Our World in Data - a collaboration between Oxford University and an educational charity - shows the total number of doses given per 100 people, mostly first doses. According to that data, more than 62% of people have been fully vaccinated on every continent apart from Africa, where the figure is about 15%.  Some countries have secured more vaccine doses than their populations need, while other lower-income countries are relying on a global plan known as Covax, which is seeking to ensure everyone in the world has access to a vaccine.  Of those countries that have moved on to booster campaigns, Chile, Singapore and Uruguay have currently vaccinated the highest proportion of people.  The Omicron variant of coronavirus appeared to trigger a spike in cases globally, although the number of official daily cases has fallen sharply in recent weeks. Studies suggest that Omicron - which quickly became dominant in numerous countries - is milder than the Delta variant, but far more contagious. The Director General of the World Health Organization (WHO) Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus said there was now a "very worrying increase in deaths, in most regions of the world" and it was "premature for any country either to surrender, or to declare victory". Asia Asia, which was the centre of the initial outbreak that spread from Wuhan in China in early 2020, shows a mixed picture with case numbers rising rapidly in China while falling sharply in other countries. China has maintained a zero-Covid policy since the first outbreak in 2019, with harsh restrictions and widespread testing.  However it is facing a new spike in cases in the north-east of the country driven by the Omicron variant, with thousands of cases reported each day and millions of people placed under lockdown.  It comes amid fears that Beijing could face a similar situation to Shanghai, which has seen some 25 million people shut in their homes for weeks. Overall, China has reported more than 1.2 million cases and more than 12,000 coronavirus deaths - still much lower than the figures reported by other major nations despite the recent surge. Europe Daily cases are now lower in many European countries than their previous peaks, with only a few seeing rises now. In the UK, the latest figures from the Office for National Statistics (ONS) show a continued fall in infections last week. However, hospitalisations and deaths appear to have been greatly reduced due to the UK's widespread vaccination rollout.  North America The US has recorded 81 million cases and over 990,000 deaths - the highest figures in the world. However, daily cases and death counts have now fallen to lower levels than during much of the pandemic.  In Canada cases and deaths have been up recently. However, the death rate in Canada remains far lower than that of the US. Latin America In Latin America, cases are falling nearly everywhere after a recent rise in many countries. Brazil has been the worst-hit country in the region, recording more than 30 million cases and 662,000 deaths - the world's second-highest official death toll.  In Peru, there have been over 212,000 deaths and the country has the world's highest number of deaths by population size - more than 650 deaths for every 100,000 people. Africa Africa has seen more than 11 million cases and 250,000 deaths - but the true extent of the pandemic across the continent is not known as testing rates are low. According to the official figures, South Africa has been the worst-hit country with more than 3.7 million confirmed cases and over 100,000 deaths.  South Africa was the first country to identify the new Omicron variant and it led to a sharp increase in infections - the fourth wave of infections in the country. Middle East Several countries in the Middle East have seen severe outbreaks of the virus since the pandemic began.  The official death toll in Iran, the region's worst-hit country, is more than 140,000 and it has seen over seven million confirmed cases.  Neighbouring Iraq has seen 25,000 deaths and in excess of two million confirmed cases. The recent wave in Israel is falling. Its vaccination rollout has been highly successful at minimising the number of hospitalisations and deaths in the country. It has now begun administering a fourth vaccine dose to people aged over 60 and to healthcare workers. Oceania Early in the pandemic, Australia and New Zealand were widely praised for their response to Covid but both saw an increase in cases in recent months.  So far, Australia has seen more than 5.7 million confirmed cases and over 7,000 deaths. Recently, Australia reopened its borders to vaccinated tourists and other visa holders for the first time in almost two years. Daily cases are also rising in New Zealand, which has recorded more than 900,000 cases but only 650 deaths. Plans for a limited, phased, reopening of the border are still going ahead. Covid-19 was first detected in the city of Wuhan, China, in late 2019 but the outbreak spread quickly across the globe in the first months of 2020. It was declared a global pandemic by the WHO on 11 March 2020. A pandemic is when an infectious disease is passing easily from person to person in many parts of the world at the same time.  The data used on this page comes from a variety of sources. It includes figures collated by Johns Hopkins University as well as national governments and health agencies. When comparing figures from different countries it is important to bear in mind that not all governments are recording coronavirus cases and deaths in the same way. This makes like for like comparisons between countries difficult. Other factors to consider include: different population sizes, the size of a country's elderly population or whether a particular country has a large amount of its people living in densely-populated areas. In addition, countries may be in different stages of the pandemic. The map, table and animated bar chart in this page use a different source for the UK from that used by Johns Hopkins University. US figures do not include Puerto Rico, Guam or the US Virgin Islands. Figures for France are for the mainland only and include both suspected and confirmed cases.

