 Workplaces will no longer need Covid precautions in place from Monday, as the last restrictions are eased.  The only settings which will then have rules will be social care - where masks will be needed for at least another three weeks. Most regulations were scrapped on 28 March, with the legal requirement to self-isolate turned to guidance. People no longer have to wear face masks in shops or on public transport by law either. Wales is currently at alert level zero, the lowest tier of Covid rules, with few restrictions to daily life remaining in place. All of Wales' coronavirus regulations were due to expire on 28 March, however some rules will remain, in response to a rise in cases being driven by a sub-type of Omicron. While workplace rules will no longer be a legal requirement, firms will still be required to carry out risk assessments, First Minister Mark Drakeford said.  The lowest set of restrictions since the start of the pandemic. We were last in alert level zero at Christmas. Under it, most curbs to our daily life have been removed, and all businesses have been allowed to reopen. Self-isolation rules did still apply, but were scrapped from 28 March. Since 22 December, those identified as being a close contact of someone who tests positive for Covid-19 in Wales have not had to self-isolate automatically, if they are fully vaccinated, aged between five and 18, or participating in a vaccine clinical trial. Instead, the Welsh government strongly advises them to take lateral flow tests for seven days as a precautionary measure. Children under five do not need to isolate and are not required to take a PCR test or do lateral flow tests. Since 28 January, people who have tested positive must isolate for a minimum of five full days, with two negative lateral flow tests required on days five and six. Until then, the self-isolation period was seven days, down from the 10 days it was previously, with negative lateral flow tests needed on days six and seven.  The Welsh government has urged people to take lateral flow tests before socialising, shopping or visiting people and not to go out if it is positive. It advised meeting outdoors where possible and to make sure indoor meetings are well ventilated. People, it said, should leave at least a day between social events. From 26 December, groups of no more than six people were allowed to meet in pubs, cinemas and restaurants in Wales, with licensed premises having to offer table service only, and face masks worn, along with contact tracing details collected.  But under the Welsh government announcement, all of this changed on 28 January. The rule of six was scrapped, meaning people can go to the pub with whoever they like, can go to the bar for a drink, and social distancing has ended. People are also able to be served at bars again, as table service only rules were scrapped. While wearing a face mask in a pub or bar is no longer required by law, the Welsh government has advised staff and customers to wear them indoors, when not eating, drinking or dancing. Limits on indoor or outdoor event numbers were lifted on 7 August. For important life events such as weddings, civil partnerships, funerals and wakes, the numbers will be determined by the ability of the venue to manage social distancing and other reasonable measures. All guests will need to take a lateral flow test. People attending weddings, civil partnerships or alternative wedding ceremonies or receptions, no longer have to wear face coverings by law under alert level zero. The Welsh government advised people to wear face coverings indoors when not eating, drinking or dancing. You can, and international travel is allowed, although local rules and quarantine will apply. On 25 January 2022, the Welsh government stopped advising people against travelling abroad for holidays for the first time since the start of the pandemic.  Nightclubs were closed from 26 December, but under the four-stage plan, they have been allowed to open since 28 January, when Wales moved to alert level zero.  Covid passes were scrapped on 18 February for nightclubs, along with cinemas, theatres and other large events. From 15 January the number of people allowed to attend an outdoor event rose from 50 to 500. On 21 January all outdoor activities moved to alert level zero, with no limits on the number of people who can take part and crowds were able to return to sporting events.  Pupils returned later than planned for the start of the new spring term in January. From 18 February, they were no longer required to wear face coverings and schools could decide their own rules. A legal restriction to work from home unless unavoidable, with £60 fines for anyone who did not comply and had no reasonable excuse, was scrapped on 28 January. However, the Welsh government had said it remained important to work from home if you can. From Monday, rules on taking precautions in workplace disappear, but businesses will still be expected to carry out risk assessments. You have been able to travel anywhere in the UK since 12 April 2021, subject to restrictions in force in the other nations. It also means people from other parts of the UK can come here. All holiday accommodation was able to fully reopen from 17 May.

