 Here are five things you need to know about the coronavirus pandemic this Thursday morning. Lord David Wolfson has resigned as a justice minister in the wake of fines issued to Prime Minister Boris Johnson and Chancellor Rishi Sunak. He's the first person to quit the government since reports of lockdown parties in Downing Street emerged. The Conservative peer wrote to Mr Johnson saying he had "no option" other than to leave, adding that the "scale, context and nature" of Covid breaches in government was inconsistent with the rule of law.  A new Covid vaccine has been approved for use in the UK. Regulators have signed off the jab manufactured by Valneva. It's been made using similar techniques to the polio and flu vaccines. The UK was meant to receive 100 million doses but the government cancelled the order in September. Read more here. Businesses in Wales will no longer have to take precautions such as using screens or limiting close interaction for coronavirus from Monday. These restrictions are being lifted but First Minister Mark Drakeford says that that "doesn't mean the pandemic is over". Rules requiring facemasks in health and social care settings will remain in force for at least another three weeks. The NHS is under pressure, with a waiting list backlog made worse by the pandemic and difficulties running hospitals due to Covid infection-control measures. These are a couple of factors which mean the health service is facing the "brutal reality" of an Easter as bad as most winters, leaders warn. But the government says there is hope on the horizon. Here's the full story. Working from home during lockdown prompted many people to buy dogs. So what impact is the return to office working having on pets? Some hounds are suffering from separation anxiety, according to trainer Olivia Leathley, who - along with dog walkers and sitters - is part of what's become a booming industry following the pandemic. Read more here. Get a longer daily news briefing from the BBC in your inbox, each weekday morning, by signing up here. Here's everything you need to know about booking a Covid booster jab, including whether you're eligible. You can find more information, advice and guides on our coronavirus page. What questions do you have about coronavirus? In some cases, your question will be published, displaying your name, age and location as you provide it, unless you state otherwise. Your contact details will never be published. Please ensure you have read our terms & conditions and privacy policy. Use this form to ask your question:  If you are reading this page and can't see the form you will need to visit the mobile version of the BBC website to submit your question or send them via email to YourQuestions@bbc.co.uk. Please include your name, age and location with any question you send in. 

