 The Department for Enterprise has apologised after releasing inaccurate information about an MHK in a Freedom of Information (FOI) response. It listed politicians linked to firms that were paid Covid business support, and wrongly included Education Minister Julie Edge as director of a local cafe. She said it was an "astonishing" error as she had left the role in April 2019, prior to the pandemic.  Ten other current or former MHKs were also listed in the response. The information was released in response to an FOI request submitted in February for a list of Covid support payments made to MHKs, or companies they were directors or shareholders of during the pandemic. The initial response, published on 4 April, listed Ms Edge as director of Onchan Park Cafe Limited, which received about £7,000. She said it was "quite clear" from information in the Companies Registry, which is managed by the enterprise department, that she had left the role. Although she said she was an advocate of transparency, she said it was important there was "accurate and precise information coming out of government".  In a statement, the enterprise department confirmed the information had now been amended, adding: "The Department apologises to Minister Edge and is working with her and the Information Commissioner in relation to this query." The list published included payments of £57,000 to former Chief Minister Howard Quayle for his holiday cottage business, a figure that was previously revealed in January in response to a different FOI request. Others listed were: Responding to the release of the payment information, Mr Baker said the money had kept six full-time staff in jobs at the bowling alley, and helped the business reopen once restrictions were lifted. Welcoming the release of the information, Ms Christian said she made no personal profit from the payments and her clothing shop would have "likely failed" without the support, resulting in job losses. Mr Wannenburgh said the payments had kept his business, which involves events featuring guest speakers from the UK, "alive, albeit in a paused state", adding it was "right and proper the Manx people know how their government spends their money". Laundry business owner Mr Robertshaw said all the support paid went directly to staff and not to directors, while Dr Haywood said her diving firm was "hit hard" by the closure of borders in 2020, and she was "thankful" for the support. Mr Peake said the funds paid to Manx language preschool Mooinjer Veggey went to nursery and administrative staff not directors, who worked for the charity on a voluntary basis. He said although, as a member for Treasury at the time, he contributed to the creation of the schemes, politicians were not involved in assessing applications. Andrew Smith said his shareholding in the Sefton Group was "minimal", and he had no input on or knowledge of the support the company had received. Both Mr Cannan and Mr Skelly have been contacted for a comment. The government has confirmed full details of any businesses that have received support from its Covid support schemes would be published at the end of the month. Why not follow BBC Isle of Man on Facebook and Twitter? You can also send story ideas to IsleofMan@bbc.co.uk

