 Here are five things you need to know about the coronavirus pandemic this Wednesday morning. The latest wave of coronavirus - thought to have been driven by the more transmissible BA.2 sub-variant of Omicron - may have peaked in children and younger adults. This wave resulted in the highest level of infections recorded in the pandemic during March, according to Imperial College's React study. Scientists tracking the outbreak say rates in those older groups most vulnerable to severe disease are continuing to increase in England.  Despite a record number of infections, fewer children in England's state schools are missing lessons due to coronavirus, new figures show. The number of pupil absences appears to be stabilising but staffing problems remain in some schools. Here's the full story. The planned rise to National Insurance, which the government says is needed in part to help the economic recovery from the pandemic, has come into effect. It means employees, businesses and the self-employed will pay an extra 1.25p in the pound, and comes amid rising energy bills and prices increases. Read more here and find out what the tax rise means for you. Campaigners are calling for what they say is an "unnecessary" restriction to be dropped in care homes. Care Home Relatives Scotland say residents should not have to isolate in their rooms if they test negative after coming into contact with Covid. The government says remaining restrictions are being reviewed. The widow of a top official who was responsible for the Scottish government's handling of the Covid pandemic claims she's been let down by the first minister. Louise Slorance says she still does not know how her husband, Andrew, died after catching Covid while having cancer treatment in 2020. This is despite Nicola Sturgeon pledging to ensure the family got answers. Here's the full story. Get a longer daily news briefing from the BBC in your inbox, each weekday morning, by signing up here. Unsure about whether you have Covid? Here's a reminder of the symptoms, including the new ones that were added to the list. You can find more information, advice and guides on our coronavirus page. What questions do you have about coronavirus? In some cases, your question will be published, displaying your name, age and location as you provide it, unless you state otherwise. Your contact details will never be published. Please ensure you have read our terms & conditions and privacy policy. Use this form to ask your question:  If you are reading this page and can't see the form you will need to visit the mobile version of the BBC website to submit your question or send them via email to YourQuestions@bbc.co.uk. Please include your name, age and location with any question you send in. 

