 The legal requirement to wear face coverings in places of worship and while attending marriage and funeral services in Scotland has ended. About one in 12 people had Covid last week and the number in hospital with the virus was at a record high.  Covid mask laws for shops, some other indoor settings and public transport will remain in place for two weeks. The Scottish government previously confirmed this guidance would remain in place until after the Easter holidays. Face coverings also need to be worn in secondary school communal areas and by those moving inside the buildings. First Minister Nicola Sturgeon had previously indicated that the regulation could be downgraded to guidance on 4 April, but the plans were delayed because of a surge in cases of the highly contagious Omicron BA.2 variant.  Many in the congregation at St Andrews Cathedral in Glasgow on Monday continued to wear a face covering.  After a service, one told the BBC he would continue to wear a mask: "It's not much of a hassle for me, I don't mind wearing one." He added that he felt he was protecting himself and protecting others.  Another said she had followed the rules when masks were required, but she felt they were becoming "ridiculous" and people had to use common sense.  "You're sitting in a massive cathedral with a mask on, but you could be sitting in a small bistro without a mask on," she said.  The Office for National Statistics (ONS) found 451,200 people in Scotland had Covid in the week ending 26 March, down from 473,800 the previous week. Separate statistics show 2,372 people with recently confirmed Covid-19 were in hospital on Sunday, including 23 in intensive care. They also recorded another 5,364 new cases of Covid-19. However a data reporting issue means lower than usual case numbers have been reported since Friday, Public Health Scotland said.  The legal requirement for businesses to take steps to reduce the spread of Covid, including physical distancing and screens, ended on 21 March. Face coverings are no longer legally required in the rest of the UK.  The UK government has expanded its official list of Covid symptoms to include another nine signs of a coronavirus infection. The UK Health Security Agency's updated guidance now lists symptoms including a sore throat, muscle pains and diarrhoea. The Scottish government said it would continue to keep its advice on Covid under review.

