 People with Covid across the UK are no longer legally required to self-isolate.  But exactly what you are advised to do depends on where you live. The official list of Covid symptoms has recently been expanded: The NHS says many of the symptoms are very similar to other illnesses, such as colds and flu. The advice varies in different parts of the UK. In England, if you're an adult with Covid symptoms you are advised to try to stay at home and avoid contact with other people until you feel better. If you do leave home, the government suggests wearing a mask and avoiding crowded spaces to avoid infecting others. Free tests are no longer available for most people in England, but you can buy one for about £2 - see below for what to do if you take one and test positive. In Scotland and Northern Ireland, if you have symptoms you're advised to self-isolate and book a PCR test. In Wales, where PCR tests are no longer available for most people, you are told to self-isolate and take a lateral flow test. If you're an adult in England, you're advised to try to stay at home for five days - and beyond if you're still feeling unwell - after the day you took the test. If you have a medical appointment you should tell the staff about your result in advance, and the guidance says you may wish to ask others to do your shopping. In Scotland, you're asked to self-isolate for 10 days including the date of the positive test. You can end self-isolation after two negative LFT results, 24 hours apart - the first no earlier than day six. If you don't have a temperature, you can stop self-isolating after the second negative test, on day seven. The guidance in Wales and Northern Ireland is effectively the same but counted differently. So you can take an LFT on the fifth full day of isolation. If it's negative, and you test negative again 24 hours later, you can leave self-isolation as long as you don't have a temperature. The governments in Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland have published guidance on how to self-isolate. In Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland,  you're advised to self-isolate if you have Covid which includes working from home.  In England, the advice if you have symptoms or have tested positive is to try to work from home if you can. If you can't, you should "talk to your employer about options available to you". In England, there is specific guidance for people aged 18 and under: Elsewhere, children with symptoms or positive tests are asked to isolate in the same way as adults, although in Wales under fives do not need to take tests and are advised to stay at home until their symptoms go away. In England, close contacts of people with Covid also don't have to self-isolate or take daily tests, regardless of their vaccination status.  In Wales, close contacts don't need to self-isolate unless they develop Covid symptoms, in which case they are advised to do an LFT and isolate if it's positive.  For the 10 days after contact they should: In Scotland, fully vaccinated close contacts (three doses) or those under the age of 18 and four months don't need to self-isolate as long as they test negative for seven consecutive days, and don't develop a fever.  In Northern Ireland, if you are fully vaccinated (two doses) you should take an LFT.  If it's negative you don't need to isolate, but should take daily LFTs until the tenth day after your last contact.  Close contacts who haven't had two vaccine doses are advised to self-isolate for 10 days from their contact with the infected person.

