 Game publisher Ubisoft has paid tribute to former player Michael "KiXSTAr" Stockley, who died in October. The in-game plaque marking the spot he won a round of Rainbow Six Siege single-handed, killing five players in eight seconds, has won fan approval. The 24-year-old commentated on many of the game's pro tournaments, winning Esports Colour Caster of the Year 2020. Rainbow Six Siege is one of the top esports titles, with more than 70 million registered players worldwide. Parker "INTERRO" Mackay, who commentated alongside Stockley at several events, thanked Ubisoft for the "touching tribute". Mackay said at the time Stockley's family had told him he had died in a car accident with nobody else injured. He said his relationship with Stockley was closer to that of family than friends. "At first it was just colleagues," Mackay told the BBC, "but there was always a friendship... that feels like it became brotherhood. "Even three months later, on top of the grief, there is still a feeling of disbelief that this is not real.  "It feels like I'm going to go to an event and he'll be there. There's part of me that hasn't come to terms with that yet." Stockley was a professional player before moving into commentary, known as "casting" within the esports community. He was widely praised for his humour and his ability to explain the game to new players, with Ubisoft calling him "one of the bright lights of our Siege community".  It also postponed an event he was due to commentate at, in his honour. Stockley's video of his round-winning feat has been viewed almost 900,000 times on YouTube. And the plaque has been discussed across social media . Rainbow Six esports director Wei Yue shared a picture of it on his Twitter feed along with the iconograph "{-}7", a representation of in-game character Tacahanka saluting. Mackay said the plaque was a fitting tribute to Stockley, whose "legacy speaks for itself". "It's really hard to explain to somebody how legendary that clip of him in the game is," he said. "Giving him that plaque is I think a really touching gesture, and it's forever a reminder on the impact he had on the game. I think it's very fitting."

