 Arctic Monkeys, Megan Thee Stallion and Dave are among the artists headlining the 2022 Reading and Leeds festival. The three-day event will take place over the Bank Holiday weekend from 26 to 28 August. Other big names on the line-up include Halsey, Bring Me The Horizon, Joy Crookes, Bastille, Wolf Alice, Little Simz and PinkPantheress. The Reading Festival will be held at Little John's Farm and the Leeds event at Bramham Park. Arctic Monkeys last performed live in the UK in 2018, but last month they announced dates for a European tour next year. Rap metal band Rage Against The Machine, best known for their 2009 Christmas number one campaign for Killing In The Name, are also on the Reading and Leeds line-up. He says it will be a "completely different challenge and experience" to previous gigs.  "To headline a festival of that magnitude and size, I think, is an interesting challenge to do over two dates in two different parts of the UK," he says. Dave, who won the 2019 Mercury Prize, will become the youngest ever artist to headline the festivals. The rapper, 23, is planning big visuals and hopes his set will surprise people and create an experience "that is completely shaped and focused around the amount of time I'm on stage". "I'm going to try and have the highest quality production value that I can," he adds. And it's a pretty special moment for rock band Bring Me The Horizon too. "It feels like it's so hard for new bands, especially a straight up rock metal band to be able to push through and become a festival headliner," Oliver says. The group has done festivals such as All Points East before, but Jordan says headlining Reading and Leeds will be "a big step up". "We've been working towards it for a few years and trying to improve our live shows as much as possible and keep releasing good music." Jordan remembers being in the mosh pit at Reading aged 14, and feels like things have come "full circle". "My dream when I was younger was just to play Reading in any capacity, so it's totally insane." The first time the group played Reading, they were on stage after two other main acts pulled out. "I've never seen a band get more stuff thrown at in my life. We were pelted non-stop for the 30 minutes we played," says Oliver. "So it feels like quite a turnaround. We're going to make sure we put on the best show of our lives and I'm sure no one's going to be disappointed." First release tickets have now sold out, but pre-sale tickets went on sale from 8am on Wednesday, for 48 hours. General tickets for the festivals will go on sale at 9am on 10 December.

