 British astronaut Tim Peake has opened a new £100m space research hub. Space Park Leicester will act as a base for scientists, researchers and businesses to work collaboratively across laboratories and offices. Professor Richard Ambrosi, from the University of Leicester, said the site represented "one of the largest groupings of space-related researchers of any institution in the UK". Mr Peake said the site would train, educate and inspire future generations. "It's going to be a fantastic facility here where many industries, businesses with a space focus will be able to conglomerate and have a real hub of activity," he said.  "Leicester has a huge momentum in terms of space. We've had the National Space Centre here for many years and the University of Leicester has got a huge focus as well on space-based technology stem [science, technology, engineering, and mathematics] subjects, so it's brilliant that Leicester is becoming the focus of space-based activities."  The space park is a project led by the university, in partnership with Leicester City Council and the Leicester and Leicestershire Enterprise Partnership (LLEP). Mr Peake said the centre would be key to the UK's space ambitions for this year. "There's a lot of momentum about what we're doing and it's a really exciting year for the UK in terms of space," he added. "We're hoping to have the first launch from UK soil of a satellite, we'll be the first European country to do that, so that's really exciting and so this Space Park Leicester is just part of where the UK is going. "We've got a growing economy and space is a real growth sector and it's brilliant that we have so much enthusiasm and energy here." The site will conduct research and education in space and Earth observation. It is located close to the National Space Centre visitor attraction. Professor Ambrosi, who is the professor of space instrumentation and space nuclear power systems in the university's school of physics and astronomy, said: "We are incredibly grateful to all of our partners. "Their support will enable us to develop innovative technologies and methods to transform our understanding of space and our own planet in the future." Mr Peake, who went on a mission to the International Space Station in 2015, added: "Space Park Leicester will highlight the exciting careers available within the space sector and help to train, educate and inspire our future generations."

