 More than 70 homes in south Manchester have been evacuated over flooding fears as Storm Franklin batters the UK.  The Environment Agency issued alerts - indicating a possible danger to life - for 430 properties in Didsbury and Northenden after the River Mersey reached record levels.  People left their homes to stay in hotels or with relatives and Didsbury Mosque also offered shelter. The Environment Agency said the flood gates were opened when levels peaked. Didsbury Golf Course was heavily flooded and carpets, footballs and woodland were washed up around Ford Lane in the high winds and water. Dulcie Green took shelter at Didsbury Mosque with fellow residents from sheltered accommodation in Northenden, including two people aged 90 and 96. The 88-year-old told BBC Radio Manchester: "They looked after us very well. "They fed us with pizzas and hot drinks and it has been very nice." Tracey Pook, from Didsbury Mosque, said: "We've made sure they are warm, they are safe and they have had somewhere to sleep as well.  "We just wanted to ease the situation for them and make sure they felt safe." Mike Hill was visited by police at his Northenden home just after 19:00 GMT on Sunday warning him river levels were high. The 71-year-old grandfather said: "They said we should consider leaving but it wasn't an order. "I went to have a look at the river and it was pretty high. "I was a bit worried when I saw the water at the top of the bridge but I didn't think it was as bad as before, so we decided to stick it out." Mr Hill said if he had known it would reach record levels he would "probably have left", adding: "I'm just so glad it didn't overflow otherwise it would have been a nightmare." Water levels, which peaked at midnight, receded in the early hours and two severe flood warnings for Manchester have now been removed, although flood alerts remain in place. In January last year, more than 2,000 properties in Didsbury and Northenden were evacuated after a storm, though homes escaped serious flooding when river levels came "within centimetres" of breaching defences.  The Environment Agency said water levels were 5cm (2in) higher during Storm Franklin. Flood risk manager Stewart Mounsey said about 70 homes were evacuated. "It has been a big event. The water is really swollen and there is quite a bit of surface water around so people need to be careful," he added. "It is a difficult decision to ask people to vacate their homes." Manchester City Council leader Bev Craig said emergency evacuation operations had now been stood down in Didsbury. She tweeted: "Thankfully after the peak at 4am, emergency evacuation operations on the ground were stood down and we got through the night without any flooding or damage to properties. "Thanks again to everyone involved and to the hundreds of residents who were impacted." Storm Franklin has caused widespread travel problems, with roads closed and public transport disrupted. Hundreds of trains were cancelled and Manchester Airport diverted nine flights earlier because of storm winds. Power cuts affected hundreds of homes in the North West and there were widespread reports of trees falling on roads in the high winds. Manchester City Council warned drivers to take extra care on the roads and advised closures may affect journeys, adding that a fallen tree had blocked part of Wilmslow Road in Didsbury. A lorry also overturned in the high winds on Barton Bridge, shutting the M60 between junctions 10 and 11. North West Motorway Police said there were no injuries. Elsewhere, bricks were blown off the front of house in Ashton-under-Lyne and a wall fell on a car in Bolton. Rail operator Northern suspended all services in the North West until 10:30 GMT and has advised people "not to attempt to travel" on the network until Tuesday. Services in Macclesfield have been also cancelled due to damage to electrical lines.  Northern services between Leeds and Manchester Victoria have resumed after flooding in Yorkshire disrupted routes, but delays and cancellations are expected.  Why not follow BBC North West on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram? You can also send story ideas to northwest.newsonline@bbc.co.uk

