 Multiple flood warnings are in place in the West Midlands region as a yellow weather warning for wind remains. Flood warnings apply on rivers across the region with the River Clun breaking its banks. Rail companies are advising people to delay journeys as service reductions are in place. Trees have also fallen blocking some of the lines. Flooding driven by heavy rain has prompted evacuations in parts of the UK as Storm Franklin hits. In Shrewsbury, where river levels are expected to peak on Tuesday, flood barriers went up in Frankwell, with car parks along the Severn shut. There were many roads flooded in and around Shrewsbury and there were closures and diversions in place, police said. The Dingle gardens in Quarry Park will remain closed on Monday and Shrewsbury bus station is closed due to a risk of rising waters closing routes into and out of the site. Executive director for place at the council Mark Barrow said at Welsh Bridge in the town levels had reached about 4.19m earlier and it was expecting an increase to between 4.6m and 5.1m on Tuesday. He added: "Just to put that in context the highest we recorded was 5.25. Yeah, [it's] really getting quite high."  The river burst its banks in Clun, Shropshire, and in Llanymynech, on the border with Wales, four people had to be rescued after getting stuck in their cars on the A483.  In Ironbridge the Wharfage is closed along with Ferry Road in Jackfield. Ironbridge Antiques, Arts & Crafts Centre said it was closed on Monday and for the next few days "while we wait and see how high the river level will be this time".  In a tweet, it asked people to please not come to Ironbridge unless it was essential "as there are lots of road closures". Parking was "limited" as most of the car parks had been taken up by residents and Environment Agency equipment, the centre added. In Worcestershire, there are flood warnings along the length of the Severn, with flood pumps deployed in Worcester and Powick, and flood gates closed in Upton upon Severn. Worcester City Council tweeted flooding was expected at Pitchcroft and other locations close to the river, including some homes.  The water level was predicted to peak on Wednesday, it added, and advised people to avoid car parks near the river.   Flooding has affected roads around Leintwardine, Walford and Adforton in Herefordshire. Temporary barriers are up in Hereford, where water levels in the Wye were expected to peak on Monday lunchtime. Chiltern Railways said the Met Office had issued a yellow weather warning for much of its network on Monday as the storm moves in.  It said it would be running a reduced service with "short notice significant delays" and stated cancellations were likely. A fallen tree at Beaconsfield is delaying services on its route between Birmingham and London. Avanti West Coast which serves routes through Coventry, Birmingham and Staffordshire, said it was strongly advising people travelling on Monday that they should delay their journeys until after 10:00 GMT if they could.  Services were "subject to speed restrictions, delays and cancellations".  Churchill House, a five-storey building in Stoke-on-Trent has been affected by the wind and appeared to be leaning.  Part of Regent Road, in Hanley has been closed due to safety fears about the building. The road has been shut in both directions from Lower Bethesda Street to Houghton Street. The route will remain closed for at least the rest of Monday as experts cannot assess it until winds die down, the council said.

