 A number of zoos and parks are among the places that will be closed to the public in the south of England following severe weather warnings.  All country parks in Hampshire, Marwell Zoo near Winchester, Monkey World in Dorset and Cotswold Wildlife Park in Oxfordshire will shut on Friday.  The Met Office warned Storm Eunice could bring gusts of up to 90mph, causing significant disruption. The sites are expected to reopen on Saturday. They have said the decision has been taken as a precautionary measure "due to the adverse weather and high winds forecast".  A severe weather warning has been upgraded to red - the highest level - for parts of south-west England and south Wales on Friday, meaning there is a danger to life from flying debris. The Met Office has said damage to homes, train cancellations and power cuts are also likely. Hampshire County Council has confirmed the closure of all the council-run country parks.  In a statement on social media Marwell Zoo apologised "for any inconvenience" caused but it stressed the safety of its staff, guests and animals were its "top priority". Oxford's Natural History Museum has also had to take precautions because of its historic glass-tiled roof. It has closed its main court as a safety precaution, which includes its dinosaur displays. Dorset County Council warned residents that Storm Eunice might cause "significant disruption".   BCP Council is advising schools take a "blended learning approach" on Friday. It suggests children of keyworkers and those in examination years study at school where safe, while the rest learn remotely at home.  Where there is "insufficient staff in place for children to learn safely at school" it recommends those schools apply remote learning for the day. Reading University said it was closing all three of its campuses "due to the risk of Storm Eunice to our community". Monkey World Dorset said the park would remain closed due to "strong winds and storms forecasted".  Cotswold Wildlife Park has warned that "there is a possibility of further closures" due to the weather.  Millets Farm Centre in Frilford, Oxfordshire, said it was closing its outside play area, animal walkway, and woodland for "customer safety".  University Hospitals Dorset said patients should only turn up for appointments at Royal Bournemouth, Poole and Christchurch hospitals if it is safe to do so, with some disruption expected. The drive through Covid swabbing centres will be closed. Oxford Health has made the decision to close all mass vaccination centres and pop up clinics. The National Coastwatch stations at Portland and Needles will also be closed on Friday because of the storm. The departure of HMS Diamond has been delayed. It was due to leave Portsmouth for the Eastern Mediterranean to join Nato's defences there. Meanwhile Itchen Bridge in Southampton will close from 05:00 GMT. Southampton City Council said the decision had been made "following the Met Office's warning of the imminent risk of potential injury or danger to life". Great Western Railway has warned that it expects to cut services by half. A lower amber warning for wind remains in place for the rest of Wales and most of England as far north as Manchester. The government is holding an emergency Cobra meeting to discuss the response to the incoming storm.

