 Two counties have declared an emergency as a red weather warning - suggesting a risk to life from flying debris - has been issued for Storm Eunice. Forecasters predict severe flooding, wind speeds of up to 90mph (144kmh) and disruption to transport services and roads in Gloucestershire and Somerset. The M4 Prince of Wales bridge and the M48 Severn Bridge are likely to close. All schools in Somerset will close and Avon and Somerset Police has advised people to avoid travelling on Friday. Some schools in Wiltshire have announced closures and Bristol City Council has advised schools in the city to close too. Areas along the River Severn between Avonmouth and Sharpness in Bristol are also expected to flood. Staff from local councils and emergency services will be knocking on doors on Thursday afternoon to help people who need to evacuate from their homes safely.  Those who are being evacuated are asked to pass on the message and knock on neighbours' doors where possible. Residents have also been asked by local authorities to place any recycling boxes in a safe place. Waste collections in Bristol and Somerset on Friday have been suspended.  A Network Rail spokesman said disruption was "inevitable" after the Met office released red and amber warnings for the South West of England from 05:00 to 21:00 GMT. "The safety of passengers and staff is our top priority," he said. In Bristol, services on the Severn Beach line have been cancelled for Friday morning. First Bus has suspended all of its services in Bristol, including Metrobus, Bristol Park and Ride and Airport Flyer, South Gloucestershire, North Somerset and Wells until 13:00 GMT on Friday. A limited service will run in Bath. North Cornwall, North Devon and Sharpness in Gloucestershire are feared to be the worst-hit areas due to the tidal impact from the storm surge and very high spring tides. National Highways said to expect dangerous driving conditions with exceptional sidewinds and wind-blown debris.  It also warned there was a particularly big risk to high-sided vehicles and other vulnerable vehicles such as caravans and motorbikes. Western Power operations director Graham Halladay said it had made storm preparations but to be prepared for power cuts. "If members of the public see fallen lines I would urge them to stay well clear and ring 105," he said. "A fallen power line could still be live and can deliver a fatal shock." It will be one of the most significant storms to hit the UK in many years. Throughout the day we should be prepared for trees being uprooted, power cuts with significant travel disruption of delays and cancellations. Eunice will start bringing impacts early Friday morning with particular concern around the Bristol Channel, where the Met Office red warning is in force for. Strong winds combined with a spring tide will make conditions dangerous. The wind strengths forecast for southern parts of the UK are comparable to the Burns' Day Storm of January 1990, which caused widespread damage, and the storms that hit the UK during the winter of 2013-2014. West of England Metro Mayor Dan Norris encouraged residents to exercise extreme caution and take all possible precautions. "I'm urging all local people to act sensibly and take all reasonable precautions with the approach of Storm Eunice," he said. Prime Minister Boris Johnson said the Army would be on stand-by to help those affected by Storm Eunice. Have you been affected by Storm Eunice? If it is safe to do so, please share your experiences by emailing haveyoursay@bbc.co.uk. Please include a contact number if you are willing to speak to a BBC journalist. You can also get in touch in the following ways: If you are reading this page and can't see the form you will need to visit the mobile version of the BBC website to submit your question or comment or you can email us at HaveYourSay@bbc.co.uk. Please include your name, age and location with any submission. 

