 An investigation has been launched after a 337ft (115m) wind turbine collapsed. People who live nearby said they heard a noise like thunder and a loud bang as the turbine fell in Gilfach Goch, Rhondda Cynon Taf, on Monday. The giant turbine is one of 29 at the Pant-y-Wal wind farm overlooking the village. A spokeswoman for Germany-based wind turbine manufacturer Nordex said specialists were investigating. "No persons were injured. The only material damage that has occurred as a result of the incident is to the turbine itself," the spokeswoman said. "All necessary safety measures have been implemented immediately after the incident. "A team of local Nordex specialists with experts from Nordex main office are currently investigating the root cause of the incident together with the wind farm owner. As yet, no reliable statement can be made as to the underlying cause of the collapse." The turbine appeared to have broken off about 60ft (18m) from its base. The tower had snapped in two and the blades were crushed in the fall. Dawn Walters, from Gilfach Goch, lives high up on the mountain side and can see the wind turbines from her house.  "I woke at six in the morning and just heard a funny noise, like a motor," she said. The noise had kept her husband awake all night. "He went out to try and pinpoint what it is was. Then around about seven o'clock there was one very large bang which sounded like a clap of thunder, but I didn't connect the noises at all.  "I was astonished what it was when I found out it was a turbine coming down." Chris Ingram from Evanstown, who often goes for walks on the mountain, said: "The shock of that coming down could have done serious damage and there's a lot of sheep and wildlife up there too".  The Pant-y-Wal windfarm began construction in 2011, with the first phase completed in 2013. Another eight turbines were added in 2015.  Rhondda Cynon Taf council said it was keen to ascertain what may have caused the failure and was seeking assurances that all reasonable steps had been taken by the land owner to secure access to the remote location and to reduce any potential risks to the public. Neighbouring local authority Bridgend said work was currently being carried out to establish which side of the border the collapse was on.  Bridgend council also said site owner Pennant Walters had been contacted for further clarification. 

